README.md, before:

# django-cas

CAS client for Django.  This library requires Django 1.5 or above, and Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.4

Current version: 1.1.1

This is [K-State&#39;s fork](https://github.com/kstateome/django-cas) of [the original](https://bitbucket.org/cpcc/django-cas/overview) and includes [several additional features](https://github.com/kstateome/django-cas/#additional-features) as well as features merged from

*  [KTHse&#39;s django-cas2](https://github.com/KTHse/django-cas2).
*  [Edmund Crewe's proxy ticket patch](http://code.google.com/r/edmundcrewe-proxypatch/source/browse/django-cas-proxy.patch).


## Install

This project is registered on PyPi as django-cas-client.  To install::

    pip install django-cas-client==1.1.2


### Add to URLs

Add the login and logout patterns to your main URLS conf.

    # CAS
    url(r'^accounts/login/$', 'cas.views.login', name='login'),
    url(r'^accounts/logout/$', 'cas.views.logout', name='logout'),

### Add middleware and settings

Set your CAS server URL

    CAS_SERVER_URL = "https://signin.somehwere/cas/"

Add cas to middleware classes

    'cas.middleware.CASMiddleware',


### Add authentication backends

    AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS = (
        'django.contrib.auth.backends.ModelBackend',
        'cas.backends.CASBackend',
    )

## How to Contribute

Fork and branch off of the ``develop`` branch.  Submit Pull requests back to ``kstateome:develop``.

### Run The Tests

All PRs must pass unit tests.  To run the tests locally:

    pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
    python run_tests.py


## Settings.py for CAS

Add the following to middleware if you want to use CAS::

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
    'cas.middleware.CASMiddleware',
    )


Add these to ``settings.py`` to use the CAS Backend::


    CAS_SERVER_URL = "Your Cas Server"
    CAS_LOGOUT_COMPLETELY = True
    CAS_PROVIDE_URL_TO_LOGOUT = True

# Additional Features

This fork contains additional features not found in the original:
*  Proxied Hosts
*  CAS Response Callbacks
*  CAS Gateway
*  Proxy Tickets (From Edmund Crewe)

## Proxied Hosts

You will need to setup middleware to handle the use of proxies.

Add a setting ``PROXY_DOMAIN`` of the domain you want the client to use.  Then add

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
    'cas.middleware.ProxyMiddleware',
    )

This middleware needs to be added before the django ``common`` middleware.


## CAS Response Callbacks

To store data from CAS, create a callback function that accepts the ElementTree object from the
proxyValidate response. There can be multiple callbacks, and they can live anywhere. Define the
callback(s) in ``settings.py``:

    CAS_RESPONSE_CALLBACKS = (
        'path.to.module.callbackfunction',
        'anotherpath.to.module.callbackfunction2',
    )

and create the functions in ``path/to/module.py``:

    def callbackfunction(tree):
        username = tree[0][0].text

        user, user_created = User.objects.get_or_create(username=username)
        profile, created = user.get_profile()

        profile.email = tree[0][1].text
        profile.position = tree[0][2].text
        profile.save()


## CAS Gateway

To use the CAS Gateway feature, first enable it in settings. Trying to use it without explicitly
enabling this setting will raise an ImproperlyConfigured:

    CAS_GATEWAY = True

Then, add the ``gateway`` decorator to a view:

    from cas.decorators import gateway

    @gateway()
    def foo(request):
        #stuff
        return render(request, 'foo/bar.html')


## Custom Forbidden Page

To show a custom forbidden page, set ``CAS_CUSTOM_FORBIDDEN`` to a ``path.to.some_view``.  Otherwise,
a generic ``HttpResponseForbidden`` will be returned.

## Require SSL login

To force the service url to always target HTTPS, set ``CAS_FORCE_SSL_SERVICE_URL`` to ``True``.

## Proxy Tickets

This fork also includes
[Edmund Crewe's proxy ticket patch](http://code.google.com/r/edmundcrewe-proxypatch/source/browse/django-cas-proxy.patch).

You can opt out of the time delay sometimes caused by proxy ticket validation by setting:

    CAS_PGT_FETCH_WAIT = False

Commit message:

Allow user creation on first login to be optional.

README.md, after:

# django-cas

CAS client for Django.  This library requires Django 1.5 or above, and Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.4

Current version: 1.1.1

This is [K-State&#39;s fork](https://github.com/kstateome/django-cas) of [the original](https://bitbucket.org/cpcc/django-cas/overview) and includes [several additional features](https://github.com/kstateome/django-cas/#additional-features) as well as features merged from

*  [KTHse&#39;s django-cas2](https://github.com/KTHse/django-cas2).
*  [Edmund Crewe's proxy ticket patch](http://code.google.com/r/edmundcrewe-proxypatch/source/browse/django-cas-proxy.patch).


## Install

This project is registered on PyPi as django-cas-client.  To install::

    pip install django-cas-client==1.1.2


### Add to URLs

Add the login and logout patterns to your main URLS conf.

    # CAS
    url(r'^accounts/login/$', 'cas.views.login', name='login'),
    url(r'^accounts/logout/$', 'cas.views.logout', name='logout'),

### Add middleware and settings

Set your CAS server URL

    CAS_SERVER_URL = "https://signin.somehwere/cas/"

Add cas to middleware classes

    'cas.middleware.CASMiddleware',


### Add authentication backends

    AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS = (
        'django.contrib.auth.backends.ModelBackend',
        'cas.backends.CASBackend',
    )

## How to Contribute

Fork and branch off of the ``develop`` branch.  Submit Pull requests back to ``kstateome:develop``.

### Run The Tests

All PRs must pass unit tests.  To run the tests locally:

    pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
    python run_tests.py


## Settings.py for CAS

Add the following to middleware if you want to use CAS::

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
    'cas.middleware.CASMiddleware',
    )


Add these to ``settings.py`` to use the CAS Backend::


    CAS_SERVER_URL = "Your Cas Server"
    CAS_LOGOUT_COMPLETELY = True
    CAS_PROVIDE_URL_TO_LOGOUT = True

# Additional Features

This fork contains additional features not found in the original:
*  Proxied Hosts
*  CAS Response Callbacks
*  CAS Gateway
*  Proxy Tickets (From Edmund Crewe)

## Proxied Hosts

You will need to setup middleware to handle the use of proxies.

Add a setting ``PROXY_DOMAIN`` of the domain you want the client to use.  Then add

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = (
    'cas.middleware.ProxyMiddleware',
    )

This middleware needs to be added before the django ``common`` middleware.


## CAS Response Callbacks

To store data from CAS, create a callback function that accepts the ElementTree object from the
proxyValidate response. There can be multiple callbacks, and they can live anywhere. Define the
callback(s) in ``settings.py``:

    CAS_RESPONSE_CALLBACKS = (
        'path.to.module.callbackfunction',
        'anotherpath.to.module.callbackfunction2',
    )

and create the functions in ``path/to/module.py``:

    def callbackfunction(tree):
        username = tree[0][0].text

        user, user_created = User.objects.get_or_create(username=username)
        profile, created = user.get_profile()

        profile.email = tree[0][1].text
        profile.position = tree[0][2].text
        profile.save()


## CAS Gateway

To use the CAS Gateway feature, first enable it in settings. Trying to use it without explicitly
enabling this setting will raise an ImproperlyConfigured:

    CAS_GATEWAY = True

Then, add the ``gateway`` decorator to a view:

    from cas.decorators import gateway

    @gateway()
    def foo(request):
        #stuff
        return render(request, 'foo/bar.html')


## Custom Forbidden Page

To show a custom forbidden page, set ``CAS_CUSTOM_FORBIDDEN`` to a ``path.to.some_view``.  Otherwise,
a generic ``HttpResponseForbidden`` will be returned.

## Require SSL Login

To force the service url to always target HTTPS, set ``CAS_FORCE_SSL_SERVICE_URL`` to ``True``.

## Automatically Create Users on First Login

By default, a stub user record will be created on the first successful CAS authentication
using the username in the response. If this behavior is not desired set
``CAS_AUTO_CREATE_USER`` to ``Flase``.

## Proxy Tickets

This fork also includes
[Edmund Crewe's proxy ticket patch](http://code.google.com/r/edmundcrewe-proxypatch/source/browse/django-cas-proxy.patch).

You can opt out of the time delay sometimes caused by proxy ticket validation by setting:

    CAS_PGT_FETCH_WAIT = False
